HARI SREENIVASAN: Good evening.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Gwen Ifill and Judy Woodruff are
away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: The
death toll
from Italy's massive earthquake
sharply rises
to 250, while hundreds of
aftershocks make
rescue efforts even more
treacherous.
Also ahead, we take a look at
the alt-right
movement making its way onto the
political
scene, the history behind it,
and how it could
impact this presidential
election.
Plus, we sit down with one of
the stars from
the Rio Olympics.
Five-time Olympic medalist Katie
Ledecky talks
breaking records and boundaries.
KATIE LEDECKY, U.S. Olympic Gold
Medal Winner:
It's just been hard work that's
gotten me
to where I am today.
It wasn't a lot of talent,
really.
It was more getting through the
work and setting
some big goals that has gotten
me to this
point.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour,"
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Rescuers in
Italy today
desperately searched for signs
of life amid
a sea of rubble today.
The death toll now stands at 250
people.
The temblor leveled a cluster of
mountain
communities northeast of Rome
early yesterday.
Emma Murphy of Independent
Television News
is in Italy with the latest.
EMMA MURPHY: Since the first
quake, the aftershocks
are seemingly endless.
This one measuring 5.4 brought
fear to an
already traumatized population
and greater
danger to those working through
what is already
damaged.
And what damage.
This is Pescara del Tronto.
These images are of destruction
on such a
scale which makes them almost
impossible to
take in.
On the ground, it still seems
unreal.
And yet a closer look gives a
glimpse into
the lives which were lived here
and for some
lost here.
Even the bishop tells me he has
no words to
offer comfort, relying instead
of spiritual
closeness or physical closeness
and silence
to help people through.
There were around 1,000 people
in the town
when the quake struck.
Incredibly, most were able to
escape.
But there are others buried deep
beneath.
There are moments of joy, like
when this worker
shouted that he thought there
was a child
and called for silence.
They carefully begin to inch her
out from
the rubble which she has been
trapped in for
15 hours.
She is 10 years old and pulled
out alive.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
EMMA MURPHY: It was a moment of
hope, but
there is much desperation and a
feeling that
the time for rescues has now
passed.
MAN: We use the dogs.
They are looking for now at this
moment, but
no sign of people alive, no.
EMMA MURPHY: For some, there's
been a chance
to retrieve a few belongings
abandoned as
they ran for their lives.
MAN: I'm angry with God.
EMMA MURPHY: You're angry with
God?
MAN: Yes, I'm angry with God.
EMMA MURPHY: It's unlikely these
homes will
ever be salvaged.
And few feel particularly
confident about
living here now.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Italy's civil
protection
agency estimates about 5,000
people, including
firefighters, soldiers, and
volunteers, have
provided assistance in the wake
of the disaster.
Colombia's president formally
delivered a
historic peace deal with FARC
rebels to his
country's congress today.
It establishes a timetable for
the leftist
rebels to disarm and reenter
society, ending
five decades of war that's
killed more than
220,000 people.
President Juan Manuel Santos
hailed the agreement
before a jubilant crowd outside
the congress
building in Bogota.
It still requires the Colombian
people's approval
in an October referendum.
JUAN MANUEL SANTOS, Colombian
President (through
translator): I want to inform
Colombians that
I have ordered a definitive
cease-fire with
the FARC, beginning this coming
Monday.
With this ends the armed
conflict with the
FARC.
Through this act, we are giving
the people
the last word regarding
Colombia's peace,
and it will be the people on
October 2 who
will say, yes, we want peace.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We will take a
closer look
at Colombia's path to peace
after the news
summary.
At least 13 people are dead one
after a nearly
nine-hour-long siege at the
American University
of Afghanistan on the outskirts
of Kabul.
Dozens more were wounded.
The attack began last night with
a car bomb
at the university's entrance,
followed by
gunfire.
It didn't end until this
morning, when two
gunmen were shot dead by Afghan
special forces.
Students recounted the assault.
AHMAD HUSSIN, Survivor (through
translator):
We were at the gym inside the
university when
the attack took place.
There is a safe room there.
We all stayed there until 1:30
a.m.
Then the security forces came in
and rescued
us.
NAQIE ULLAH, Survivor (through
translator):
The militant insurgents threw
hand grenades
at us, but we covered ourselves
under the
desks to avoid shrapnel.
Then we all jumped down from the
window of
the second floor and escaped.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The State
Department confirmed
no U.S. citizens were among the
dead.
So far, there has been no claim
of responsibility.
In Syria, the main Kurdish
militia is beginning
to withdraw from the Turkish
border a day
after the U.S. threatened to
revoke its support
if the Kurds didn't do so, this
in part due
to Turkish concerns that the
so-called YPG
has gained too much ground
fighting the Islamic
State.
They say the group is tied to
Kurdish separatists
inside Turkey.
Meanwhile, more Turkish tanks
and fighters
moved into the Syrian border
town of Jarabulus
today to help Syrian rebels
secure the area
from ISIS militants.
U.S. defense officials have
confirmed a series
of naval face-offs with Iran in
the Persian
Gulf.
An Iranian vessel approached two
American
warships yesterday, prompting
one U.S. ship
to fire warning shots.
The incident came a day after
Iranian boats
steered within 300 feet of an
American ship
in the Strait of Hormuz.
A Pentagon spokesman said Iran's
naval aggression
was a concerning trend.
PETER COOK, Pentagon Press
Secretary: We certainly
hope it doesn't continue,
because it serves
no purpose, other than to raise
tensions in
an important part of world, and
tensions that
we don't seek to have escalated.
We are conducting ourselves
again, as always
have, as the Navy does around
the world, in
a safe and professional manner,
and our sailors
will continue to do that, and
they will continue
to take the steps they need to,
to protect
themselves, their ships and our
interests
in the region.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Iran's defense
minister
warned today they will continue
to confront
any vessel entering its
territory, even though
this week's incidents were in
international
waters.
The maker of the EpiPen said
today it is reducing
out-of-pocket costs for some
patients, amid
a firestorm of criticism.
The company, Mylan, will issue
savings cards
that cover up to $300 of the
cost of its $600
two-dose package of the
lifesaving allergy
treatment.
It is also doubling the amount
of people that
qualify for its patient
assistance program.
Stocks slipped on Wall Street
today, led by
declines in the health care
sector.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 33 points
to close at 18448.
The Nasdaq fell five points, and
the S&P 500
slid nearly three.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
a Colombian
peace deal ending a half-century
of war; the
rise of the alt-right and why
Hillary Clinton
is linking it to Donald Trump;
swimmer Katie
Ledecky on her record-breaking
Olympic golds;
and much more.
Ledecky on her record-breaking
Olympic golds;
and much more.
As we reported s earlier, the
government of
Colombia signed a deal with the
largest rebel
group, the FARC, that could end
the world's
longest-running conflict.
Here to discuss what's in the
accord and the
road ahead is Cynthia Arnson.
She's director of the Latin
American Program
at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center
for Scholars.
So, thanks for joining us.
CYNTHIA ARNSON, Woodrow Wilson
International
Center for Scholars: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: First of all,
this deal
has been a long time coming.
What's in it.
CYNTHIA ARNSON: Well, there are
five basic
agreements that cover agrarian
reform, cover
the kind of political
participation that the
guerrillas will have, cover
illicit economies,
including drug trafficking,
transitional justice,
and then the final one on the
terms for disarmament
and demobilization.
So it's very comprehensive, very
detailed.
The text itself is over 250
pages, but there
are some provisions of it that
are more controversial
than others.
And as with any peace accord,
the real test
comes when it's time to
implement, and the
government and all of Colombian
society have
to live up to the agreement,
including the
FAR.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The
disarmament seems like
one of those complicated motions
that there
are just also -- there is a
distrust between
people who have been fighting,
shooting, killing
one another for quite some time.
What's to keep someone from
saying, you know
what, I'm going to wait until
the very end
before I hand in my guns or
before I walk
in through this process?
CYNTHIA ARNSON: There is a very
explicit timetable
for the demobilization and
disarmament of
the FARC.
It's supposed to start the
minute that the
peace accord is actually signed
between the
government and the president of
Colombia,
which will probably be some time
in a couple
of weeks, in mid to late
September.
And then that is considered day
one, and there
is a 180-day period, basically
six months,
for the FARC to go to one of 23
zones throughout
the country that have been
designated that
will be overseen by the United
Nations monitors
in terms of verification.
So there's a very detailed
thing.
And the Colombian military will
actually be
in place to guarantee the safe
passage of
the guerrillas from the various
places in
the country where they are.
So the Colombian military has
also been at
the peace table.
That was one of the very unique,
I think,
features of the Colombia peace
process.
So they have been working
together with the
guerrillas to come up with these
procedures.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And this is
still a country
that has a lot of opposition to
the FARC.
What about the feeling that this
is perhaps
giving them a pass?
There have been injustices and
human rights
violations on both sides of
this.
How do you bring some of those
perpetrators
to justice while you build this
peace?
CYNTHIA ARNSON: Well, it is
hugely controversial.
And the country is very
polarized.
And there will be a plebiscite,
a chance for
the Colombian public to vote
either yes or
no for the peace accord to be
binding and
valid.
Thirteen percent -- 50 percent
of 13 percent
of the registered voters have to
come out
and approve the peace accord
that's been negotiated.
And the most strident critic is
the former
president, Alvaro Uribe, and the
current president,
Santos, was his defense
minister, and so there
is a tremendous amount of bad
blood.
And there are provisions on
transitional justice
and on the political
participation of the
FARC guerrillas that are really,
really controversial.
And there is an expression in
Spanish about
swallowing frogs.
And I think there are many such
frogs in this
agreement.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Is there a
possibility here
we could actually see a
campaign, almost a
political-style campaign, to try
to encourage
voters to scuttle this accord?
CYNTHIA ARNSON: Well, that
campaign has been
under way throughout the peace
negotiations.
A lot of criticism, almost daily
tweets from
President -- former President
Uribe and members
of his political party.
There will be a very, very
active campaign
between over -- now and October
2, both by
the government and its
supporters to mobilize
people to come out and vote in
favor of the
accord, and an equally vigorous
campaign by
the opposition to say vote it
down, this is
not a good agreement for
Colombia.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Cynthia Arnson
of the Woodrow
Wilson Center, thanks for
joining us.
CYNTHIA ARNSON: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: My
conversation with Cynthia
Arnson continues online on our
Facebook page.
Viewers also asked her about the
U.S. role
in the conflict, and what
happens if the agreement
to end the war is rejected in
the referendum.
You can hear what Cynthia Arnson
has to say
at Facebook.com/NewsHour.
You can hear what Cynthia Arnson
has to say
at Facebook.com/NewsHour.
Back in this country, both
presidential candidates
were in full attack mode today.
At issue, Republican nominee
Donald Trump's
alleged connections to a fringe
conservative
philosophy.
John Yang has the story.
JOHN YANG: Today, Hillary
Clinton debuted
a fresh line of attack against
Donald Trump.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
That is what I want to make
clear today.
A man with a long history of
racial discrimination,
who traffics in dark conspiracy
theories drawn
from the pages of supermarket
tabloids and
the far, dark reaches of the
Internet, should
never run our government or
command our military.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JOHN YANG: This comes a little
more than a
week after Trump made Steve
Bannon his campaign's
CEO.
Bannon is on leave from his job
as executive
chairman of Breitbart News, a
Web site Bannon
has called a platform for
something called
the alt- right.
It's a movement that lives
largely online,
rejects mainstream conservative
politics,
and is linked to nationalist and
white supremacist
sentiments.
Clinton said Trump has echoed
alt-right rhetoric.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: All of
this adds up
to something we have never seen
before.
Now, of course, there's always
been a paranoid
fringe in our politics, a lot of
arising from
racial resentment.
But it's never had the nominee
of a major
party stoking it, encouraging
it, and giving
it a national megaphone, until
now.
JOHN YANG: Clinton's campaign
backed up their
candidate's message online with
this new video
that includes a Ku Klux Klan
member expressing
support for Trump.
MAN: Donald Trump would be best
for the job.
QUESTION: For president?
MAN: Yes.
MAN: I am a farmer and white
nationalist.
Support Donald Trump.
JOHN YANG: Even before Clinton
spoke, Trump
hit back.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
When Democratic policies fail,
they are left
with only this one tired
argument: You're
racist, you're racist, you're
racist.
They keep saying it.
You're racist.
It's a tired, disgusting
argument.
The people of this country who
want their
laws enforced and respected, and
respected
by all, and who want their
border secured,
are not racists.
If you want to have strong
borders, so that
people come into our country,
but they come
in legally through a legal
process, that doesn't
make you a racist.
It makes you smart.
It makes you an American.
JOHN YANG: Today's exchange
between the candidates
shining a spotlight on a
little-known movement.
So, what is the alt-right?
And how it is influencing this
year's presidential
race?
For that, we are joined by
Matthew Continetti,
editor in chief of The
Washington Free Beacon,
a conservative news Web site,
and from Manchester,
New Hampshire, David Weigel, who
covers national
politics for The Washington
Post.
Gentlemen, thank you both for
joining us.
Dave, let me start with you and
ask you that
question.
What is alt-right, who's behind
it, where
did it come from?
DAVID WEIGEL, The Washington
Post: Well, it's
a fair young movement with
fairly old ideas.
I would say what they're
against, which is
easier to define, is a
philosophy of invite
the world, invade the world.
They are generally
anti-intervention and
anti-multiculturalism.
And they started to grow in
2007, as the Bush
administration was falling to
below 30 percent,
was seen as discredited, was
obviously going
to help Democrats win the next
election.
Ron Paul's campaign seeded some
of this, but
it really grew under the
presidency of Barack
Obama.
And they're fairly young people.
This is, I think, what's
worrying for a lot
of progressives and a lot of
people on the
right, fairly young people,
under 25, under
30, who have only known the
Republican Party
as a disappointment.
And they have gravitated to
these ideas which
are very anti-immigrant, very
anti-intervention.
JOHN YANG: And they're getting a
lot of attention,
Dave, because of the
anti-Semitic and anti-white
-- or -- and white supremacist
rhetoric.
How central is that to their
message and to
what they believe in?
DAVID WEIGEL: It's enabled in a
lot of their
messaging.
Not every alt-right thinker or
activist is
a white nationalist, by far, but
there's a
sense that political correctness
is a bigger
problem than racism, and that
racism is used
as a cudgel for silencing what
they want to
say, what they want to argue
about.
That's, again, an older idea.
Before the alt-right, there were
paleoconservatives,
like Sam Francis, like Pat
Buchanan, who argued
this and said, look, what the
left wants to
do to America, how it wants to
import lots
of immigrants, decrease the
number of traditional
white Americans, what they want
to do is not
popular, and they have to kind
of Trojan a
horse through culturally, and
we're against
that.
JOHN YANG: Matthew, what is your
take on this?
What would you add to that, to
what Dave said?
MATTHEW CONTINETTI, The
Washington Free Beacon:
I think I have a slightly
narrower definition
of the alt-right than Dave does.
(LAUGHTER)
MATTHEW CONTINETTI: It's true,
there has always
been this kind of critique of
conservatism
from the non-interventionist,
the non-multicultural
view.
I think the alt-right takes it a
degree further.
And so what you have that
unifies a lot of
these alt-righters on the
Internet is really
a disgust at the idea of
egalitarianism.
They do believe in hierarchies.
Some of them are racial.
They also believe in sexual
hierarchies.
So, a lot of them kind of wave
the banner
of the men's rights movement.
And so you start off from that
political conclusion.
And very quickly, when you read
the rhetoric,
it devolves into just outright
racism, outright
misogyny.
So part of it starts with these
ideas of Sam
Francis, Joe Sobran, Pat
Buchanan, that have
been around since the end of the
Cold War,
really.
But a lot now of it is now much
more visceral,
hatred of the mainstream
cultural movement
for embracing some version of
egalitarianism,
civil rights, equality of the
sexes.
JOHN YANG: And, David, what is
the link, or
is there a link or is there a
connection between
the Trump campaign and the
alt-right?
DAVID WEIGEL: Well, there always
has been.
There been alt-right support for
Trump mostly
manifested online or even
sometimes the T-shirts
and signs you see at rallies.
There is a big alt-right
presence on sites
like 4chan and Reddit.
And it was good that Matt
mentioned the men's
rights movement.
You could mention Gamergate.
That was kind of a gateway for a
lot of activists
who consider themselves
alt-right.
So, they supported Trump in the
first place.
The more direction came when
Steve Bannon,
the CEO of Breitbart, became the
CEO of Trump's
campaign.
Breitbart, very, I think, in a
calculated
and then also in a natural way
became a forum
for alt-right thinking and
alt-right coverage,
coverage of politics the way
that those 4chan
and Reddit people wanted it
covered.
And that's when this connection
became harder
to deny and when I think the
Clinton campaign
thought it was something to
exploit.
JOHN YANG: And, Matthew, what
does this mean
for the future of the
conservative movement?
MATTHEW CONTINETTI: I think it's
one more
sign that conservatism as we
understand it
is coming under great strain
during the era
of Trump.
And so you have all of these
criticisms of
the mainstream conservatism
represented by
William F. Buckley and Ronald
Reagan.
All these critics now feel
empowered with
the rise of Donald Trump.
Anyone who had a bone to pick
with the George
W. Bush administration, with the
Republicans
in Congress, with the editors of
National
Review, of The Weekly Standard
now says, Trump
is our guy.
Trump is going to be the agent
of change that
legitimates our somewhat fringe,
marginal
ideas.
Now, is there a large
constituency for these
ideas?
No.
I mean, you can find it on the
Internet, but
the danger for the conservative
mainstream
is to say, oh, all of a sudden,
since it's
on the Internet, maybe we need
to incorporate
it into our thinking.
As soon as that happens, I think
you're going
to find conservatism itself
illegitimated.
JOHN YANG: You talk about the
days of William
F. Buckley, when he was sort of
the one who
said who was a conservative.
Does the conservative movement,
do you think,
bear any responsibility for the
emergence
of this sentiment, the
alt-right?
MATTHEW CONTINETTI: I think it's
bottom-up,
really.
So, I don't think you had the
same gatekeepers
that you did in the earlier
media age, when
there were one or two
conservative magazines
that published biweekly or
monthly.
Now we live in the Internet, and
it's the
Wild West.
Anyone with an opinion, a
Twitter account,
a YouTube channel, they can
express themselves.
They can put these opinions into
the public
sphere.
And what we have found, much to
the surprise
of conservatives like myself,
is, there is
a large audience for this type
of rhetoric,
these types of ideas.
And also one thing that needs to
be mentioned
with the alt-right, they're kind
of cyber-bullies.
And we saw, with the rise of
Trump in 2015,
groups of these advocates and
activists on
Twitter going after in many
cases Jewish conservatives
and calling them anti-Semitic
tropes.
This is something that I think
is very ugly.
And I worry for the future of
conservatism,
that it may displace the more
traditional
mainstream conservatism that
most Americans
think of when they think
conservatism for
the last 30 years.
JOHN YANG: We should point out
that one of
the targets of Breitbart was
your father-in-law,
William Kristol, who they went
after right
-- in a very...
MATTHEW CONTINETTI: I wouldn't
like them anyway,
though.
(LAUGHTER)
JOHN YANG: OK.
Dave, what's the future of this
movement?
You say that they feel like this
is their
moment, with Donald Trump as the
nominee.
Regardless of what happens to
Donald Trump
in November, what's going to
happen to this
movement?
DAVID WEIGEL: Well, the light at
the end of
the tunnel for a lot of
Republicans is, they
don't think they're going to win
the election.
They think Trump will lose.
And there will be an effort -- I
don't think
a cynical effort, I think in
part a sincere
effort -- to say the reason he
lost is because
he embraced a lot of radical
ideas that can't
win in America anymore, we need
to get rid
of those elements.
To key off what Matt was saying,
it wasn't
like they were part of the
conservative conversation,
the mainstream conversation
anyway.
They weren't writing for
National Review.
They weren't writing for The
Weekly Standard.
They were always on the outs,
but I think
they will be actively ostracized
after the
election.
JOHN YANG: Dave Weigel, Matthew
Continetti,
thanks for helping us walk
through this.
MATTHEW CONTINETTI: Thank you.
JOHN YANG: Thanks.
DAVID WEIGEL: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": our
conversation
with Olympic star Katie Ledecky;
the national
parks turn 100 years old; and
Ms. Wheelchair
New York gives her take on
rethinking sex
and disabilities.
But, first: Trade, globalization
and the impact
on wages and jobs are issues
that have spoken
strongly to voters throughout
this presidential
campaign.
Both Donald Trump and Hillary
Clinton are
talking very differently about
the subject
than prior nominees.
And for Trump, it's been a major
focus of
his campaign.
As part of our continuing
coverage of the
issues, our economics
correspondent, Paul
Solman, is spending the next
three weeks focused
on those questions.
Tonight: how Donald Trump sees
it, and some
of the concerns about that
approach, part
of our weekly Making Sense
series, which airs
on Thursdays.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
China.
China all the time.
PAUL SOLMAN: Given Donald
Trump's persistently
pointed pivot to Asia, small
wonder that among
his favorite films is "Death by
China."
NARRATOR: China has stolen
thousands of our
factories and millions off our
jobs.
Multinational corporation
profits are soaring,
and we now owe over $3 trillion
to the world's
largest communist nation.
PAUL SOLMAN: And small wonder
the film's writer/director,
Peter Navarro, sounds like the
candidate.
PETER NAVARRO, Writer/Director,
"Death by
China": We're going right down
the toilet,
and it's a made-in-China toilet.
PAUL SOLMAN: Navarro, a
Harvard-trained professor
at University of California,
Irvine, is the
sole Trump economic adviser with
a Ph.D.
So how'd you get interested in
and worried
about China?
PETER NAVARRO: I teach MBAs.
And I noticed, starting a few
years after
China joined the World Trade
Organization,
that a lot of my students were
no longer employed.
They were still coming to get
their MBA, but
they'd lost their jobs.
And I started to ask questions
why.
And, at that point, all roads
were leading
to Beijing.
PAUL SOLMAN: Navarro has done
plenty of technical
work in economics, is a pioneer
in online
learning.
But he began focusing on China
just a few
years ago.
PETER NAVARRO: The defining
moment in American
economic history is when Bill
Clinton lobbied
to get China into the World
Trade Organization.
It was the worst political and
economic mistake
in American history in the last
100 years.
PAUL SOLMAN: In the last 100
years?
PETER NAVARRO: In the last 100
years, yes.
China went into the World Trade
Organization
and agreed to play by certain
rules.
Instead, they are illegally
subsidizing their
exports, manipulating their
currency, stealing
all of our intellectual
property, using sweatshops,
using pollution havens.
What happens is, our businesses
and workers
are playing that game with two
hands tied
behind their back.
PAUL SOLMAN: Navarro says you
can even see
the effects at U.C.
Irvine, where, he says, Chinese
students,
paying triple the in-state
tuition rate, are
displacing native Californians,
while the
Chinese parents are scooping up
local real
estate.
PETER NAVARRO: Generally all
cash deals.
PAUL SOLMAN: So your argument
is, unfair trade
practices, they amass dollars,
they bring
the dollars back here, they buy
up property,
and they drive up real estate
prices?
PETER NAVARRO: That's right.
And they drive up rents for
younger people.
They will drive up home prices
for first-time
homebuyers.
So it's not just that we're
losing jobs and
factories.
We're giving away our homes, our
businesses,
our companies, our technologies.
PAUL SOLMAN: But, of course, we
heard the
same alarm about Japan in the
1980s, a false
alarm.
But China is different, says
Navarro, so much
bigger.
DONALD TRUMP: We are going to
enforce all
trade violations against any
country that
cheats.
PAUL SOLMAN: So one of the
answers your candidate,
Donald Trump, provides is that
we should have
protective tariffs on Chinese
goods.
PETER NAVARRO: Wrong word.
Wrong word.
PAUL SOLMAN: What's wrong?
PETER NAVARRO: Donald Trump is
not a protectionist.
All he wants to do is defend
America against
unfair trade practices.
PAUL SOLMAN: Well, defend,
protect.
PETER NAVARRO: Very different.
Trade is good.
Tariffs and the threat of
tariffs are a negotiating
tool to require countries like
China to stop
their unfair trade practices.
That's the mission.
PAUL SOLMAN: And how much do you
imagine it
might cost in the increase in
the price of
goods at, say, Wal-Mart?
PETER NAVARRO: Any increase
would be less
than the paycheck that all these
people would
be getting, both in terms of
actually having
a job, plus wages rising again.
PAUL SOLMAN: If the jobs
actually were to
come back, that is.
PETER NAVARRO: The Trump trade
doctrine is
this.
America will trade with any
country, so long
as that deal meets these three
criterion:
You increase the GDP growth
rate, you decrease
the trade deficit, and you
strengthen the
manufacturing base.
PAUL SOLMAN: But isn't
technology responsible
for the elimination of American
factory jobs?
PETER NAVARRO: Certainly
technology has played
a part, but the dramatic change
from five-and-a-half
decades of 3.5 percent rate of
growth prior
to China entering our markets
with illegally
subsidized goods and the 1.8
percent afterwards
suggests strongly that China has
played an
enormous role in the decline and
downfall
of the American economy.
And I can show on a blackboard
exactly why.
PAUL SOLMAN: Now, your typical
economist would
hardly agree.
But, hey, says Navarro, your
typical economist
still believes in the old
so-called Keynesian
approach to reviving the
economy.
PETER NAVARRO: Alright, Paul,
the growth of
any nation is simply four
things.
PAUL SOLMAN: More consumption,
C., by consumers
and more G, government spending.
He and Trump, however, will
supposedly flip
the script, stimulating more I,
Investment,
by business, via tax cuts for
the wealthy
and corporations, while boosting
net exports
through new trade deals.
That's exports minus imports.
PETER NAVARRO: That's right.
PAUL SOLMAN: And, of course, if
that's a negative
number, that is, you have more
imports than
exports.
PETER NAVARRO: This is the big
kahuna.
This is what Donald Trump
understands.
This is the trade deficit.
We run a trade deficit of close
to $800 billion
a year.
And so this directly subtracts
from this.
This is why we're stuck in
low-growth mode.
PAUL SOLMAN: Well, maybe.
The job of a journalist,
however, is to ask
questions.
What is U.S. GDP 2016?
COMPUTER VOICE: Checking on
that.
PAUL SOLMAN: Happily, there's
now Siri to
answer them.
COMPUTER VOICE: It looks like
the answer is
about 18.2 trillion U.S. dollars
per year.
PAUL SOLMAN: Thank you, Siri.
In that case, GDP is something
like $18 trillion,
right?
And you're saying that the trade
deficit is
-- well, it's less than $1
trillion, right?
So, this can't be a major factor
in total
GDP, the size of the economy.
PETER NAVARRO: Yes, but when we
run these
big trade deficits and send our
jobs offshore,
we hold our wages down and our
income down.
That feeds right back into the
biggest part
of this whole equation,
consumption.
This drags GDP down as well.
PAUL SOLMAN: Or so this story
goes.
When you hear the criticism
about Donald Trump's
own goods being made in other
countries, what's
your reaction?
PETER NAVARRO: Do me a favor.
Play Dan Slane's clip in my
"Death by China"
movie.
It's priceless.
PAUL SOLMAN: Slane was a plywood
manufacturer
in Bowling Green, Kentucky,
whose competitors
moved to China.
DAN SLANE, Business Owner: And I
opened up
three factories in China and
delivered to
the customer in the United
States 50 percent
cheaper than I could make it in
Bowling Green.
PETER NAVARRO: He winds up
selling product
back here into the U.S. at cost.
How did he make his money?
DAN SLANE: Every month, the
Chinese government
would send me a check for 17
percent of my
exports, and that was my net
margin and my
profit.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, is Donald Trump
getting checks
from the Chinese government?
PETER NAVARRO: That's how the
game works.
PAUL SOLMAN: But he could use
American companies.
There are lots of people who
actually say
made in USA and use that as a
marketing tool.
PETER NAVARRO: The point here
is, he can't.
The competitive forces that
force a Dan Slane
to take his furniture company to
China, they're
real, OK?
And if you try and take the high
ground and
produce here in America, when
China's dumping
product in and manipulating
their currency,
you go out of business.
You just go out of business.
PAUL SOLMAN: What about the
character issues
that surround Donald Trump?
PETER NAVARRO: Well, look, I
don't go there.
I focus on policy.
That's my job.
PAUL SOLMAN: And you have no
problem with
the failed companies?
PETER NAVARRO: No one should be
surprised
just because somebody isn't
successful 100
percent of the time.
The percent here, he's a
billionaire.
He's successful.
PAUL SOLMAN: And no matter how
much money
he actually has or hasn't got,
given that
Donald Trump is the Republican
candidate for
president of the United States,
no can argue
that he isn't successful -- to
date, at least.
"NewsHour" economics
correspondent Paul Solman,
reporting from Irvine,
California.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And next week,
Paul will
look at Hillary Clinton's
approach to trade,
and how she has changed over
time.
Now a conversation with one of
the biggest
stars of this summer's Olympics,
Gold medal-winning
swimmer Katie Ledecky, about
what's behind
her success.
Margaret Warner sat down with
her earlier
today.
MARGARET WARNER: She's been
likened to a Lamborghini,
to a hard-charging swimming
machine.
Katie Ledecky, the freestyle
phenom, won five
medals in Rio, four gold, one
silver.
Also remarkable is her dominance
in her sport.
In this 800-meter race in Rio,
for example,
her closest competitor was
nearly a pool-length
away.
Ledecky's Olympic debut came at
age 15 in
the 2012 London Games, when she
defeated the
favorite, a British gold
medalist, to win
the 800.
Now 19, she repeatedly breaks
world records,
usually her own.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
MARGARET WARNER: Ledecky is
known not just
for her relentless training,
more than four
hours a day, but for her
friendliness, calm
and modesty.
Amid the celebrations since her
return to
Washington, last night, she
threw out the
first pitch at the Washington
Nationals Game.
MAN: Oh, great pitch.
MARGARET WARNER: Now she's
taking an unusual
path for such a proven winner,
retain her
amateur status, attend Stanford
this fall,
and pass for the moment on
millions of dollars
of endorsement deals.
We got together today at the
pool where she
competed in high school, Stone
Ridge School
of the Sacred Heart in Bethesda,
Maryland.
Katie Ledecky, welcome.
Thank you for joining us.
KATIE LEDECKY, U.S. Olympic Gold
Medal Winner:
Thank you.
MARGARET WARNER: Or letting us
join you at
your old stomping ground here.
Something that struck me
watching you swim,
but also out of the pool, is
just this joy
you seem to radiate.
KATIE LEDECKY: I have always
loved swimming.
I started swimming when I was 6
years old
for a summer league swim team.
And they made it really fun
right from day
one.
And I never really looked back.
I started swimming year-round,
and did it
with my family, with my friends,
and just
have gotten to meet so many
great people through
swimming.
MARGARET WARNER: And I was
surprised to see
that, in 2012, when you went to
the Olympic
training camp, they gave you
some elite athlete
tests just on your physical
abilities.
And it came back saying
remarkably unremarkable.
(LAUGHTER)
MARGARET WARNER: What does that
mean?
KATIE LEDECKY: I'm not
ridiculously tall for
swimmers.
I don't have very big hands.
I don't have very big feet,
nothing really
unusual.
I think it's just been hard work
that's gotten
me to where I am today.
It wasn't a lot of talent,
really.
It was more getting through the
work and setting
some big goals that has gotten
me to this
point.
MARGARET WARNER: Do you enjoy
working hard?
KATIE LEDECKY: I do.
And it's fun when you get to do
it with some
of your best friends.
And that's what I have loved.
I have just loved setting big
goals and trying
to reach towards them.
So, a couple of years ago, my
coach, Bruce
Gemmell, and I sat down and set
some goals.
And at the time, they seemed
pretty big, but
I reached them all in Rio, and
that's the
best feeling.
MARGARET WARNER: And the goals
are about not
beating someone else, but about
times.
KATIE LEDECKY: Right.
My goals for Rio were to go 3:56
or better
in the 400 free, and I went
3:56, to go 8:05
or better in the 800 free, and I
went 8:04.
And then the third goal was to
win the 200
free.
And I did that.
So, I matched all my goals.
And at the time, three years
ago, those seemed
pretty far out there.
MARGARET WARNER: To what degree
are you competing
with others vs. yourself?
KATIE LEDECKY: You are always
racing against
the other swimmers, but I always
try to just
focus on what I'm doing and how
I want to
swim my races.
MARGARET WARNER: Are you
checking out what's
going on in the other lanes?
KATIE LEDECKY: I sometimes do.
And if I'm ahead, I can
sometimes tell.
It might mean I'm having a good
swim, but
pretty much, I'm just focused on
how fast
I'm going, how fast I'm feeling,
and pretty
much block everything out, the
sounds, the
sights, just kind of listen to
the rhythm
of the water, and just
maintaining the same
stroke, the same rhythm, the
same tempo, and
thinking about how I want to get
my hand to
the wall.
MARGARET WARNER: David Marsh,
who is the coach
of the whole U.S. team, Olympic
team, said
you had an intensity that he'd
never seen
in a distance athlete, and that
you were fearless.
Another coach of yours said
that, put you
at the beginning of a race, and
you're like
a bull in a stall waiting to get
out.
Where does that come from?
KATIE LEDECKY: I don't know.
I think I have always loved the
competitiveness
of swimming.
And I have just had that outlet
from since
I was 6 years old.
But I think it's something
that's developed
over time, too.
As I have gotten faster and I
have come down
to some of the shorter races,
the sprint events,
I have always just tried to have
that mind-set
of attacking each race and
really treating
each race, no matter how long it
is, as a
true race.
MARGARET WARNER: And that's why
you don't
pace yourself, the way a lot of
coaches would
advise you to do?
KATIE LEDECKY: Right.
Yes.
I like to think of it more as
racing than
pacing.
MARGARET WARNER: A lot of top
athletes, especially
when they reach even near the
pinnacle you
have, talk about the pressure
they feel, and
that they feel anxiety to
perform.
Do you ever feel that?
KATIE LEDECKY: No, I don't.
I always just focus on what my
own goals are,
and not what anybody else's
goals for me are
or their expectations.
I just know that my family will
always be
supporting me and my friends and
my coaches.
And as long as I put in the hard
work and
know that I'm giving it my best
effort, I
will always be happy.
MARGARET WARNER: There is a lot
of comment
about your swimming style, and
that your coach
at, what were you, at 12 or 13
changed your
style, so that you could swim
really more
like Michael Phelps.
It's been called a half-gallop.
Explain that is and what
advantage it gives
you.
KATIE LEDECKY: Yes, it's kind of
a stroke
we found is the most efficient
for me.
And it's the fastest stroke for
me.
And I think it was just
utilizing my strength
to the best.
MARGARET WARNER: But what does
it consist
of?
KATIE LEDECKY: It's just more of
a loping
stroke, and it's using my kick
more than most
female distance swimmers use.
So, I'm just kicking a lot more
and getting
a lot of power out of my hips
and out of my
stroke.
And I have a really good catch
with my arms.
And so it's just kind of putting
all those
things together.
MARGARET WARNER: Now, you have
always, recently,
practiced with men.
And one male athlete said that
other male
athletes were actually "broken"
-- quote,
unquote -- by having to swim
against you.
How did you feel about that?
KATIE LEDECKY: I don't really
pay attention
to it.
I just -- you know, when there
is a swimmer
next to me, I try to race that
swimmer, no
matter the gender.
And, you know, I try to give the
guys a run.
They need someone to push them,
too.
And it helps me, and hopefully
it helps them
as well.
(LAUGHTER)
MARGARET WARNER: There was also
a lot of commentary
during the Olympics about sexist
comments
they were seeing about female
athletes.
And one of the examples was the
commentators
who said Katie Ledecky swims
like a man.
Did you found that sexist or
offensive?
KATIE LEDECKY: Well, I think
Rowdy Gaines
actually said something like:
Katie Ledecky
doesn't swim like a man.
She swims like Katie Ledecky.
And that was a good comment.
I swim the way I swim.
And I take it as a compliment
when somebody
says I swim like a man, because,
as you said,
my stroke is kind of taken after
what some
of the male freestylers have
done.
But I'm just trying to go as
fast as I can
go.
(LAUGHTER)
MARGARET WARNER: So, now you're
onto Stanford,
NCAA swimming.
You're not going professional.
I have heard estimates from $5
million to
$15 million you could be making
a year.
Did you even consider that?
What went into your decision not
to go pro?
KATIE LEDECKY: No, I didn't
consider it at
all, really.
I have always wanted to swim
collegiately
and have that experience.
And I can't wait to be a part of
the Stanford
team.
And I can't wait to just be
swimming with
them and going to class with
them and enjoying
that whole experience.
MARGARET WARNER: So, if a
6-year-old or 7-year-old
or 8-year-old girl were watching
you in the
Rio Olympics and said to
herself, I want to
be the next Katie Ledecky, what
advice would
you give her?
KATIE LEDECKY: Yes, I would
encourage her
to set some big goals, because I
never dreamed
I would go to the Olympics when
I was 6, 7
or 8 years old.
I just started setting goals.
And all of a sudden, when I was
14 years old,
my next goal was to make the
Olympics.
And I never imagined it.
And I never imagined I would
come away with
medals and be able to travel the
world and
swim.
And it's been such a great
experience.
And I hope that young girls will
have that
dream and will have experiences.
And it might not be in swimming.
It might be in something else.
But I found a passion, and I
love it.
It's something I love and
something I enjoy.
It's something I'm good at.
And it's what I have been able
to give 100
percent to.
MARGARET WARNER: Well, Katie,
you're certainly
an inspiration to that young
girl and all
of us.
KATIE LEDECKY: Thanks.
MARGARET WARNER: Thank you so
much.
KATIE LEDECKY: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: One Olympic
postscript of
a very different tone.
Late today, Brazilian police
charged American
swimmer Ryan Lochte with filing
a false police
report.
Lochte said he and three
teammates were robbed
at gunpoint during the Rio
Olympics.
Brazilian police said no such
crime took place.
Investigators have asked that
Lochte be deposed
in the United States.
Investigators have asked that
Lochte be deposed
in the United States.
It was 100 years ago today that
President
Woodrow Wilson signed what was
called the
Organic Act, creating the
National Park Service.
Jeffrey Brown takes our
Bookshelf outdoors.
JEFFREY BROWN: Terry Tempest
Williams, author,
naturalist and environmental
activist, grew
up in Utah surrounded by
national parks.
TERRY TEMPEST WILLIAMS, Author,
"The Hour
of Land": They were our
backyard.
And with our family business,
laying pipe
in the American West, it was
this wonderful
juxtaposition between intrusion
in the land
and protected land.
JEFFREY BROWN: The story of the
land, right?
TERRY TEMPEST WILLIAMS: So, I
feel like the
American West is in my bones in
the deepest
way.
And I also felt conflicted at a
really young
age, because I saw my father, my
uncle, my
grandfather, my brothers digging
trenches
in the land.
And yet I saw prairie dogs on
the side of
the trenches.
And my impulse was to protect
them from the
very destruction that was
putting food around
our table..
JEFFREY BROWN: One hundred years
since the
creation of the National Park
Service, the
contradictions and controversies
over America's
public lands continue.
But there is no denying the
popularity of
the parks themselves, Great
Smoky Mountains
in the East, Yosemite in the
West, Yellowstone,
the oldest park, established in
1872, and
so many more, large and small,
natural landscapes
and historic monuments, some 412
parks and
sites in all.
And attendance records continue
to be broken,
with more than 300 million
visits last year.
In "The Hour of Land," a Terry
Tempest Williams,
who still lives in Utah, has
written part
natural history, part memoir,
part call for
preservation.
We talked at Great Falls Park, a
small, but
dramatically beautiful National
Park Service
site just 15 miles from
Washington, D.C.,
with the Potomac River crashing
over and through
rock formations and turkey
vultures hovering
overhead.
So, what happens to you when you
go out into
a park?
TERRY TEMPEST WILLIAMS: The
miraculous.
JEFFREY BROWN: The miraculous?
Nothing less than that, huh?
TERRY TEMPEST WILLIAMS: I mean
superlatives.
This is about superlatives.
Just seeing this, all of a
sudden, you say,
OK, I remember what matters, and
I am very,
very small.
And, you know, humor returns,
deep breathing
returns, and that sense of
affection.
JEFFREY BROWN: You go to all the
different
parks.
You tell their stories.
And we see that a lot of the
issues of today
have been there forever, right,
whose land
is it, the local vs. national
governance of
the land.
TERRY TEMPEST WILLIAMS: I
thought I -- in
the beginning, Jeff, I thought I
was writing
a book about our national parks.
It became very clear to me it
was a book about
America in...
JEFFREY BROWN: More than the
parks themselves?
TERRY TEMPEST WILLIAMS: I think
so, because
they are the soul of our
country.
They are a reservoir for our
spirit.
And they are not only memory
palaces for each
of us, but they really do hold
our stories,
not just one story, but multiple
stories,
diverse stories.
And I think the gift of this for
me has been,
what story are we choosing to
tell?
What stories aren't we telling?
And that's been the power of
"The Hour of
Land" for me.
JEFFREY BROWN: One continuing
story pits energy
development vs. preservation.
Terry Tempest Williams describes
in personal
terms a visit several years ago
to the Theodore
Roosevelt National Park in North
Dakota with
her father.
TERRY TEMPEST WILLIAMS: We fell
in love with
it.
We also saw in that viewshed oil
and gas development.
We went to see the Bakken oil
fields when
it was at its peak.
JEFFREY BROWN: Right.
TERRY TEMPEST WILLIAMS: My
father was shattered.
He turned to me and said: "This
is too pretty
of a landscape for oil and gas
development."
That was my father, who would
tell you he's
very proud of the scars that
he's created
on the American landscape.
There is little my father and I
would agree
on politically, but come to a
national park,
and that is our common ground.
And he's the one that gave me
this sense of
place, this ethic of place.
JEFFREY BROWN: Do you see a way
to balance
the needs of preservation and
economic development?
TERRY TEMPEST WILLIAMS: I live
in a state
where national monuments and
parks were fought
over.
Now they are the economic engine
that is keeping
rural Utah alive.
That's in our history, whether
it's Grand
Teton National Park, whether
it's Grand Staircase
National Monument.
History shows us that it has
always been a
prudent, beautiful decision.
And 300 million visits in our
national parks
system, I think, celebrates that
idea.
JEFFREY BROWN: Three hundred
million visits
also brings up the notion that
we hear about
today of the parks being loved
to death.
Right?
That's another issue for today's
parks.
TERRY TEMPEST WILLIAMS: I think
it shows us
our need.
I think it shows us our void.
You and I both know that, yes,
in Yellowstone,
it's not bumper to bumper.
It's chest to back.
But if you're a half-a-mile off
the beaten
path, you're in a very, very
wild place.
JEFFREY BROWN: What is your
hope, then, for
the next 100 years for the
national parks?
TERRY TEMPEST WILLIAMS: It's
very difficult
to establish a national park.
I think it's going to be even
more difficult
to keep them.
And I think we, as citizens of
this country,
have to fight for them.
I think we have to make sure
that the public
lands stay public.
And I think we have to love
them.
And each of us, with the gifts
that are ours,
I think we have to give those
gifts up in
the name of community, to think
beyond our
own species, to think about
grizzlies.
Do we really want them delisted,
to think
about these black vultures,
their power, their
foreboding, powerful, beautiful
presence,
that we too will die, and they
will pick our
bones.
These are not political issues.
Ultimately, I think they are
spiritual issues.
And this is where the spirit of
America dwells.
JEFFREY BROWN: Terry Tempest
Williams, thank
you so much.
TERRY TEMPEST WILLIAMS: Thank
you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In honor of
this year's
centennial, high school students
from across
the country who are
participating in the
"NewsHour"'s
Student Reporting Labs program
will be heading
to the canyons and mountains of
their local
parks to tell stories they
discover about
our shared lands.
The young journalists are part
of a STEM reporting
initiative funded by the
National Science
Foundation.
For more information, visit
@reportinglabs
on Twitter and Facebook.
We look forward to seeing their
stories in
the coming year.
We look forward to seeing their
stories in
the coming year.
And now to another in our Brief
But Spectacular
series.
Tonight, Danielle Sheypuk on
stigmas and disabilities.
A former Ms. Wheelchair New
York, she is also
a psychologist who specializes
in relationships
and sexuality among those with
disabilities.
And a warning: The subject
matter is for a
mature audience.
DR.
DANIELLE SHEYPUK, Clinical
Psychologist: I
am a clinical psychologist and a
runway model.
I have spinal muscular atrophy
type 2.
I was born this way.
I'm sure we could cut to
pictures of me right
now as a kid looking cute.
But we're going to cut back to
me.
Let's focus on sex, intimacy,
relationships,and
disability.
Can you handle it?
I joke a lot that I'm Ms.
Wheelchair New York
by night and clinical
psychologist by day.
I'm on Tinder.
I'm out there dating.
It really supplements what I do
as a clinician,
because I know exactly what my
patients with
disabilities encounter.
People have asked me many times
online dating,
can you function sexually?
And I always answer back, yes.
Can you?
I remember, when I first moved
to New York
and started dating, I was just,
you know,
being rejected, having
inappropriate questions
asked about me, like, oh, hi,
what's your
name?
Oh, can you have sex?
You know, you really don't start
out conversations
like that.
The problem lies in the fact
that we don't
see a lot of people with
disability in the
media.
One night, I got a call from my
friend who
said: Hey, I found this pageant
online, the
Ms. Wheelchair New York Pageant.
And I thought to myself, let me
do that pageant,
and let me try and win it.
If I could wear high heels, then
they can.
If I can dress sexy or do my
hair, then they
can do it, too.
There are numerous stereotypes
that are still
associated with disability,
being asexual,
being unable to have sex, we
don't make good
romantic partners.
So the notion of sex in society
that we see
on TV, it often shows these
physically fit
people having traditional forms
of sex.
You don't have to be able to do
the standard
throw-down notions of sex.
Anything can be sexy.
It could be a fluttering eyelash
on a cheek.
When you don't see yourself in
those magazines
or part of those models, then
you internalize
that image and think that, OK, I
guess I'm
not sexy.
People with disabilities have
the same sexual
needs and desires and appetite
for romance
and intimacy that everyone else
has.
It's part of being human.
My name is Dr. Danielle Sheypuk,
and this
is my Brief But Spectacular take
on making
disability sexy.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Watch more
from our Brief
But Spectacular series on our
Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour/Brief.
Also online: Special
correspondent Marcia
Biggs recently brought you the
story of the
last remaining doctors of
Aleppo, Syria.
Tomorrow, join her and others
for a Twitter
chat at 1:00 p.m. Eastern about
why pro-government
forces seem to be targeting
medical facilities
and physicians with airstrikes.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening
with Mark Shields and David
Brooks.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.